---
title: 'A Short Hike: A Diorama of Fun'
description: "The sense of curiosity all of us have, made miniature."
discover:
  description: "The sense of curiosity all of us have, made miniature."
date: 2025-08-02
redirectFrom: ['/blog/ashorthike/']
tags: ['games', 'feature']
image: '/posts/2025/a-short-hike/i_did_it_ash.jpg'
alt: 'Claire overlooks a beautiful mountainscape: an aurora of blue and purple light the sky.'
credit: My own screenshot.
bskyurl: 'https://bsky.app/profile/superhylia.bsky.social/post/3lgo7sydmi226'
---

*A Short Hike* had been sitting in my free EGS library for quite some time; I had heard it was quite a short, cozy, explorative game that admittedly would've made me a bit wary about purchasing it. After playing it on a whim, I can definitely say it's worth the price of admission if you are buying. It didn't last me long, but it did leave me fulfilled, and for what's been a pretty stressful past few weeks, it was comforting and a little inspiring.

The visuals have always caught my eye as a sucker for low-poly 5th generation art styles, and this game nails it. It gets Animal Crossing comparisons for its aesthetic and low-tempo gameplay, but this reminds me a lot of Wild World's look, which is always lovely. It's bright, lit well, and distinctive in range, and I love the detail that as the draw distance is further away from the camera, models are outlined in a sepia, almost sketch-like style, which colors in as you get closer. Every area looks different while still feeling cohesive as one mountain, assisted by the fantastic use of dynamic music. The soundtrack is one of the best uses of this feature that I can recall, perfectly matching not just the "vibe" of each area, but the pace of your movement and the platforming challenges Claire is facing. Setting off your adventure with "Beach Buds" as you get acclimated to the controls with its comforting use of nice piano strokes, guitar, and accordion for spice let you settle in, while the contrasting "Snow, Lots of Snow" during your journey is slower tempo and more reserved with a touch of choir backing that lets you focus on the more difficult spacing needed to reach the peak. After finishing the game, I immediately went to listen to the soundtrack again, which says a lot. Sadly, there is no photo mode, but the UI is very minimalistic as only your feathers, the compass, and any dialogue (with cutesy typography, I might add) are ever on the screen; everything else is otherwise visually communicated very well with Claire having dash lines, losing feathers, and turning her shirt blue when expending her resources.

With tonally together textures and tunes, a trek on the island is always fun. The game is not very complex, with only a few core actions (run, jump, climb, and item usage) that all see upgrades throughout your hike. The game's simple progression system of feathers is apt for a game of this scale, but its impact on your ability to run (once you find the running shoes), climbing ability and how many mid-air flaps you have is large; you feel the difference in races where you're more limited in your mobility and truly feel like you're more capable to tackle the challenges of Hawk Peak Trail. The game only ever requires 7, which does add a little bit of challenge-run replayability for me, which the mountaintop race served well. The game also does a pretty good job at landmarking, a blessing since the game lacks a map or even a radar for nearby objectives, which I am mixed on. On one hand, I do think the map is sized reasonably enough in an almost diorama format that a map isn't necessarily required, but I do think a smart radar or compass to alert you of nearby objectives in some way would've been a welcome feature, especially when trying to find the remaining items. Besides the fishing journal, there is also no in-game tracking of how many items out of their total you have, which I feel could've been offered once completing the game. The limited camera control also adds to the diorama feel, though I feel it's sometimes for the worse; with such a small range of movement, you mostly rely on the game's angles, which can get tricky when trying to look around for landmarks, hidden collectibles, or getting a good view.

The sense of discovery for said collectibles, with or without tools to help find and keep tabs on them, is grand, however. The comparisons to Breath of the Wild are fitting in the feeling of pure exploration; it's a small world, but you really can spot something cool and reach there if you're willing to put the work in. This is shown wonderfully with the cute and cozy cast of characters that populate the trails; all of them have a funny line or short story worth listening to, and a lot of them have real movement around Hawk Peak Trail, where you see them interact with other characters or change after your conversations with them. Many (like the marathon runners) do a good job of subtly nodding towards potential upgrades like the running shoes and quests intersect with other quests in ways that always make it worth stopping to chat. Even without a radar or useful compass (it just points north), it had a bit of a search-action element with "this NPC gave me this item, now I can finish talking to this other NPC," a charming way to make the most out of a smaller-scale game. There are some ways in which that simplicity does come at a cost, though, with probably my biggest complaint about the game, and ironically, another area of similarity with Breath of the Wild: inventory management is more consuming to deal with than really necessary. While many items in the inventory have limited-to-no interactivity that would be useful for traversing the island, having to open the inventory to switch between the Shovel, the Fishing Rod, the Bucket, the Walkie-Talkie, the Treasure Map hints, and more when needed is wanton. An inventory system with bumpers, triggers, and/or the D-pad for switching or accessing new functions would've made the game more comfortable.

While narrative is clearly not the focus of *A Short Hike*, I do think its buffet of vignettes does feel fitting and helps put Claire at ease or allows her to bounce off more eccentric personalities in a way that makes her hike up the mountain for cellphone reception a little more touching. The painter struggling to evoke their perspective on the park, Sue the Rabbit feeling demotivated about their luck in the marathon, the blue bird who at first is a little bit annoying with the overcharge of feathers, before realizing they're struggling to pay tuition, and Claire herself being worried about her mother, all stuck with me. Their stories aren't just relatable, but actionable: getting the 400 coins for the blue bird to help with tuition took a little bit of time, but it was worth seeing that he's only trying to make ends meet and returns the watch that another ram is desperate to find for its sentimental value. Going around the park to race Avery or praise the painter as they find a new location feels like I'm impacting the other characters, not just being lectured by them. It also helps beyond their personalities that many of them offer a good variety of challenges around the park to break up the monotony. Beachstickball, fishing, and boatracing are fun activities with high scores, rarity, accessible controls, and fun courses for the latter as sources of non-core engagement. Parkour racing tests your ability to resource manage between running, climbing, and mid-air flaps across 3 different routes across the park, and it was always fun, even indulging in a few rematches to appease Avery's competitive spirit. Finding items like the Pickaxes and Bucket to increase your ability to navigate the park horizontally and vertically with hidden shortcuts and flowers, respectively, kept me playing even after reaching the peak. The park and its visitors felt just as much a part of my journey as exploring the trail for myself. It ends on a low-key note; Claire is finally at the summit getting the call she's been awaiting before being nudged by her mother to take the updraft down the mountain. While the mechanics of flying took a bit to get used to, thankfully, both the game and I saved the best for last: the flight down at momentous speed as the rest of the world fills in with popping color and rising music never gets old, and put the cherry on top of the vanilla sundae that is Hawk Peak Provincial Park. 

*A Short Hike* is best described as a diorama of explorative fun. It is small in scope and span, minimalistic in mechanics and music, and cozy in composition and character; a miniature crafted by an impassioned hobbyist that successfully replicates both a mountainous park and the charm of the community inhabiting it. Its marginal approach to design does lead to some wanton opportunities for controls, collectibles, and camera, but it never ceases to be fun. Despite EGS not having achievements built-in, traversing the map for a found list was still engaging enough to see it mostly all the way through. A great adventure platformer that appeals to the sense of curiosity in us all, and a comforting reminder of how the simple things in life can be crafted so well in development and in narrative, awaits and won't take up too much of your time, even if I wouldn't mind if it did.